README.md, before:

# SCNS
> Please keep in mind that this repository has not received a major update in over a year,
> some things may be out of date or not work.

SCNS is a "Script Library" with a bunch of scripts for you to use.

Some scripts are known to have issues, if you find out the issue and know how to fix it, please open a pull request so it can be fixed. Otherwise, please open an issue and I will try to fix it.

If you need to see the documentation on scripts, then visit the documentaiton [here](ScriptDocumentation.md).

## Notable Scripts

* **[MapSpawn](mapspawn.nut)**
* Utilizes Developer Convar to make changes
* Ability to change the game in various ways
* Many cool modifications like extra parts of a map and a WIP advanced version of course 01
* Many global functions that can be used to modify the game in different ways.

* **[Improved Noclip Script](test01.nut)**
* Most other noclip scripts that you find(if you can even find one break when you die or just will not work at all if you try to change your team, causing you to manually noclip every time you want to fly.
* Thanks to this improved Noclip Script, all of those issues are fixed! And not only that, there is also an option to change the player that the noclipstate is given to, increasing the capability of this script. 

## Notice

Please note that the current status of the repository is not permanent and may change in the future.

### Credits

ServerClown - Main Developer

Crunch Brunch - Assistance/Developer

Jim Wakelin - Assistance/Developer

LittleBlueBox1 - Assistance

MISCHAGER - Assistance

p2r3 - Vscript Libraries

LaVashik - Vscript Libraries

Commit message:

Revise project status notice in README
Updated warning about project status and outdatedness.

README.md, after:

# SCNS
>Please note that this project is very old, I still plan on eventually making changes to this project but until then just know that in its current state this project is heavily outdated.

SCNS is a "Script Library" with a bunch of scripts for you to use.

Some scripts are known to have issues, if you find out the issue and know how to fix it, please open a pull request so it can be fixed. Otherwise, please open an issue and I will try to fix it.

If you need to see the documentation on scripts, then visit the documentaiton [here](ScriptDocumentation.md).

## Notable Scripts

* **[MapSpawn](mapspawn.nut)**
* Utilizes Developer Convar to make changes
* Ability to change the game in various ways
* Many cool modifications like extra parts of a map and a WIP advanced version of course 01
* Many global functions that can be used to modify the game in different ways.

* **[Improved Noclip Script](test01.nut)**
* Most other noclip scripts that you find(if you can even find one break when you die or just will not work at all if you try to change your team, causing you to manually noclip every time you want to fly.
* Thanks to this improved Noclip Script, all of those issues are fixed! And not only that, there is also an option to change the player that the noclipstate is given to, increasing the capability of this script. 

## Notice

Please note that the current status of the repository is not permanent and may change in the future.

### Credits

ServerClown - Main Developer

Crunch Brunch - Assistance/Developer

Jim Wakelin - Assistance/Developer

LittleBlueBox1 - Assistance

MISCHAGER - Assistance

p2r3 - Vscript Libraries

LaVashik - Vscript Libraries
